=head1 NAME

tmp-admin-pwreset.pl - temporary administrative password reset tool

=head1 USAGE

./tmp-admin-pwreset.pl [USERNAME1,USERNAME2,@GROUP1... TEMP_PASSWORD|--restore|--help]


=head1 REQUIREMENTS

=over 1

=item * Samba3 with tdbsam backend

=item * shadow passwords

=item * perl

=item * Programs:

=over 4

=item tdbtool

=item tdbdump

=item chpasswd

=item smbpasswd

=item usermod

=item date

=item cat

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Temporarily resets UNIX and Samba passwords for administrative purposes. The script saves the original password hashes in a file (specified by $current_pw_hashes_db) to allow them to be reset to their original values later. This is useful for administrators who need to login I<as> users, but do not have their passwords. The administrator can unobtrusively login and work on a user account without the user having to change their password back later, or even knowing anything happened. 

While passwords are in a temporarily reset state, the data is stored in the $current_pw_hashes_db file. Before modifying the user databases, the script backs up both user password database files (shadow file and passdb.tdb) to the directory specified by $pw_hashes_backup_dir with a timestamp in the filenames. All these files are protected by mode 0400, but its safe to go back and delete them later on (the backups are made just for safety reasons).


=head1 EXAMPLES

 ./tmp-admin-pwreset.pl jsmith pass
	temporarily resets the password of user jsmith to 'pass'
  
 ./tmp-admin-pwreset.pl jsmith,lwatkins,foo apple
	temporarily resets the password of users jsmith, lwatkins, 
	and foo to 'apple'
  
 ./tmp-admin-pwreset.pl jsmith,@domain-users apple
	temporarily resets the password of user jsmith, and all the 
	users in the group 'domain-users' to 'apple'
  
 ./tmp-admin-pwreset.pl --restore
	restores the passwords for all users whose passwords have been
	temporarily reset.
	
 ./tmp-admin-pwreset.pl --help
	Displays this perldoc page


=head1 Original Mailing List Post

This script was originally released open-source via post to the Samba
mailing list:

 From: Henry Van Styn <vanstyn at intellitree.com>
 Date: Wed Apr 30 21:44:00 GMT 2008
 Subject: [Samba] tmp-admin-pwreset.pl - temporary administrative password reset tool

 I have written a Samba administrative perl script that I wanted to 
 share with the community.

 We use Samba3 with a tdbsam backend (set to be synchronized with the 
 UNIX password database). Our users are Windows XP clients with 
 roaming profiles. During the course of supporting our users, our 
 techs frequently need to login *as* specific users to work on their 
 windows profile, such as Outlook profile settings, check out their 
 user specific problem reports, etc. The trouble is that if we don't 
 know their password (which we don't generally want to know) we have 
 to change their password, and then somehow alert them to the new 
 password so that they can login and reset their password when they 
 get back to their PC after we've worked on it.
 
 This has been a cumbersome problem for us for a while, and to solve 
 it, I finally wrote tmp-admin-pwreset.pl. What it does is simple: 
 you pass it a list of usernames and a temporary password. It will 
 reset the password of all the supplied users (Samba and UNIX) to the 
 temporary password, but first will backup the current password 
 *hashes* for each of the users to a file, so that they can be reset 
 to their original values later on. You then call the script in 
 another mode ("--restore") and it sets all the password hashes for 
 both UNIX and Samba to what they were originally.
 
 This effectively allows administrators to be able login as specific 
 users without knowing their password, and without having to change 
 their password either. Users won't even know anything changed at all 
 (and won't call the helpdesk because they can't login; didn't see 
 the note, didn't listen to the voicemail, etc).
 
 I wrote this for our own use, however, I thought it might be useful 
 to others, so I am sharing it.
 
 If anyone is interested, the script and documentation can be 
 downloaded here:
 
 http://devzone.intellitree.com/projects/tmp-admin-pwreset
 
 Best regards,
 
 Henry Van Styn
 IntelliTree Solutions llc
 http://www.intellitree.com


=head1 CHANGELOG

=over 1

=item 2008-04-30
Version 0.1 
Initial program development

=back


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2008 IntelliTree Solutions llc (http://www.intellitree.com)

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this program under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover Texts.

If you modify and/or redistribute the script, please preserve orignal author and documentation information.


=head1 WARRANTY

This script is free software and comes with B<absolutely no warranty whatsoever>, use at your own risk. The author, and IntelliTree Solutions in general, have no liability for any damage or data loss that may be caused by using this software.


=head1 AUTHOR

 Henry Van Styn <vanstyn@intellitree.com>
 IntelliTree Solutions llc (http://www.intellitree.com)

=cut
